Aflores plymouth (#234)
osisoft/Edge-Data-Store-Docs: content/shared-content/shared-content/configuration/history-recovery.md

---
uid: HistoryRecovery
---

# History recovery

> The adapter you are using supports the following data collection modes which you configure in the **DataCollectionMode** parameter of your adapter's data source configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The adapter you use supports the following data collection modes. which you configure in the `DataCollectionMode` parameter of your adapter's data source configuration:
```

> - `CurrentOnly`: The adapter component operates normally. History recovery is disabled.
> - `CurrentWithBackfill` (Default): The adapter component operates normally, but disconnections and shutdown events are recorded in the form of recovery intervals. When the adapter is reconnected to a data source, it automatically backfills data for the recorded intervals.
> - `HistoryOnly`: The adapter component does not get started. The adapter can start collecting historical data on demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `CurrentOnly`: The adapter component operates normally. History recovery is disabled.

- `CurrentWithBackfill` (Default): The adapter component operates normally, but disconnections and shutdown events are recorded in the form of recovery intervals. When the adapter is reconnected to a data source, it automatically backfills data for the recorded intervals.

- `HistoryOnly`: The adapter component does not get started. The adapter can start collecting historical data on demand.
```

History recovery for adapters supports the following two operations related to the data collection mode:

> - **On demand history recovery**: Recovers data from a specified start time or start and end time. If end time is not specified, the default is `utcnow`. On demand history recovery is available only when the adapter is in `HistoryOnly` data collection mode.
> - **Limited automatic history recovery**: Backfills data gaps that originated from connection disruptions, data source issues, PI adapter shutdown, or both. This is limited to a maximum time-range of four days. Limited automatic history recovery is available only when the adapter is in `CurrentWithBackfill` data collection mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **On demand history recovery**: Recovers data from a specified start time or start and end time. If end time is not specified, the default is `utcnow`. On demand history recovery is available only when the adapter is in `HistoryOnly` data collection mode.

- **Limited automatic history recovery**: Backfills data gaps that originated from connection disruptions, data source issues, PI adapter shutdown, or all of the above. This is limited to a maximum time-range of four days. Limited automatic history recovery is available only when the adapter is in `CurrentWithBackfill` data collection mode.
```
